---
layout: post
title: Map Reduce
---
This paper talks about Map Reduce a programming paradigm by Google. Map Reduce is one of the most important distributed systems
paper in the last few years. The authors Sanjay Ghemawat and Jefferey Dean are also present in 
other important systems paper of Google such as BigTable, GFS and TensorFlow.

## Motivation
Google in 2003 was the largest and most popular Search engines and had workloads which
involve large datasets. They had many such workloads every day. Doing all of 
them on a single server would be very ineffecient and hard to scale with their size. 
They also needed a general purpose framework to do this as some of the engineers who
work on the Search algorithm would not need to waste time to write networking and
scheduling code for each of their jobs.

## What is Map Reduce
* Programming model
* Users specify map which generates an intermediate set of key value pairs after processing.
* Users also specify a reduce function which combine the intermediate output of map.
* Easily parallelizable
* Many real world tasks can be modeled this way.
* Abstracts details like Automatic parallelization and distribution, Fault tolerance, IO Scheduling etc.


## Programming Model
Their programming model was inspired by map and reduce functions in functional
programming languages.
<br />
Map does a computation over a range of tuples and emits the result to the
reduce with a pariticular key.

<br />
Reduce would pick up all the values for a particular key and run a user defined
reduction over this range of values and return the output.


